content/posts/2024-11-18-thoughts-on-indieweb.md, before:

---
title: "Thoughts on IndieWeb"
date: 2024-11-18T19:00:07+01:00
layout: post
description: 
headerImage: img/photo-1658963642269-0a36c9eb5d66.avif
tags: ["personal", "indieweb"]
slug: thoughts-on-indieweb
toc: false
comment: true
---

The universe has been aligned ever since I posted about [my social media detox]({{< ref "2024-09-10-social-media-detox.md" >}}).
With my new-found intention to start blogging more, I've been going down rabbit holes. 🐰

It started with (re-)discovering Neocities and finding _cool internet concepts_ like a [/now](/now) page.

It was 2004 when I first got embroiled in web development, making fan-sites for Habbo Hotel.
Which led to me building communities, which then evolved to tooling and open-source.

I was following the trends closely, I was there when microformats and the concept of the indieweb got born.
I however did not fully understand it as a teenager. I was just curious about the concept of data
aggregation with microformats and getting better SEO in Google.

## Death of silos

Now in November 2024, more than ever, the original thinking behind the indieweb and specifically, **POSSE**
(Publish (on your) Own Site, Syndicate Elsewhere) has so much more meaning to me.

I've been on LiveJournal, MySpace and while both domains are still up, the community is dead.
I personally left Twitter in 2022, but I'm seeing a bunch of signals of people leaving en-masse.. again.

I spent 11 years on Twitter. That's a lot of content. This blog, has content that's 13 years old, and it's 
always been here and will always be here.. (even though the old content is super cringe)

## Identity Crisis

As such I have decided to embrace the indieweb even more. But who am I?

I am **blog.gerbenjacobs.nl**, a Hugo-based blog. I'm pretty happy with the tech and also that domain
has been used for quite a while.

I'm also **gerben.dev**, at the moment, a portfolio-ish site that's just a single page.

.. but I could also be a pseudonym with a cool domain name. There's so many now.
_(I was thinking of **goblin.town**)_ 👿
 
Also _gerbenjacobs.nl_ is the same Gerben Jacobs on LinkedIn, but I don't consider _gerben.dev_ to be the same.
The real me will of course always be [hidden](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hidden_personality), 
but the _Gerben_ on the fediverse, [todon.nl/@gerben](https://todon.nl/@gerben) comes close.

I don't want the LinkedIn-me be confused with the internet-me. (Boomer upbringing trauma?)
But I also don't wanna give a fuck and only work for companies who don't give a fuck about that kinda stuff either.

So who do I become?

## A web presence as self-expression

The spelunking I did this weekend made me discover a lot of cools gems [aaronparecki.com](https://aaronparecki.com/)
and his GPS adventures, James' Coffee Blog [jamesg.blog](https://jamesg.blog/2024/02/19/personal-website-ideas/) with some very cool
page ideas and Amy's website [rhiaro.co.uk](https://rhiaro.co.uk/) which has [tiny PHP apps](https://apps.rhiaro.co.uk/)
to post custom content by using the ActivityPub protocol.

I don't know these people, but in my mind, these are **cool people**. And I want to be cool! 😎

So now I want to create something beautiful, a Frankenstein's monster, a collection of pages,
little applets, colourful mood boards, emotional homages to the internet of 2004-2008. 
Marquee's, glitter GIFs, MP3s in a JWPlayer SWF. Webrings, pixelart buttons, faerie pictures.
The whole shabang. 🧚

Just have to decide **1)** between Neocities 2.0 or _regular_ website and **2)** do I use _gerben.dev_ or do I
go for something completely new?

Commit message:

add description to indieweb post

content/posts/2024-11-18-thoughts-on-indieweb.md, after:

---
title: "Thoughts on IndieWeb"
date: 2024-11-18T19:00:07+01:00
layout: post
description: The death of silos, identity crises and a web presence as a form of self-expression. What is indieweb?
headerImage: img/photo-1658963642269-0a36c9eb5d66.avif
tags: ["personal", "indieweb"]
slug: thoughts-on-indieweb
toc: false
comment: true
---

The universe has been aligned ever since I posted about [my social media detox]({{< ref "2024-09-10-social-media-detox.md" >}}).
With my new-found intention to start blogging more, I've been going down rabbit holes. 🐰

It started with (re-)discovering Neocities and finding _cool internet concepts_ like a [/now](/now) page.

It was 2004 when I first got embroiled in web development, making fan-sites for Habbo Hotel.
Which led to me building communities, which then evolved to tooling and open-source.

I was following the trends closely, I was there when microformats and the concept of the indieweb got born.
I however did not fully understand it as a teenager. I was just curious about the concept of data
aggregation with microformats and getting better SEO in Google.

## Death of silos

Now in November 2024, more than ever, the original thinking behind the indieweb and specifically, **POSSE**
(Publish (on your) Own Site, Syndicate Elsewhere) has so much more meaning to me.

I've been on LiveJournal, MySpace and while both domains are still up, the community is dead.
I personally left Twitter in 2022, but I'm seeing a bunch of signals of people leaving en-masse.. again.

I spent 11 years on Twitter. That's a lot of content. This blog, has content that's 13 years old, and it's 
always been here and will always be here.. (even though the old content is super cringe)

## Identity Crisis

As such I have decided to embrace the indieweb even more. But who am I?

I am **blog.gerbenjacobs.nl**, a Hugo-based blog. I'm pretty happy with the tech and also that domain
has been used for quite a while.

I'm also **gerben.dev**, at the moment, a portfolio-ish site that's just a single page.

.. but I could also be a pseudonym with a cool domain name. There's so many now.
_(I was thinking of **goblin.town**)_ 👿
 
Also _gerbenjacobs.nl_ is the same Gerben Jacobs on LinkedIn, but I don't consider _gerben.dev_ to be the same.
The real me will of course always be [hidden](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hidden_personality), 
but the _Gerben_ on the fediverse, [todon.nl/@gerben](https://todon.nl/@gerben) comes close.

I don't want the LinkedIn-me be confused with the internet-me. (Boomer upbringing trauma?)
But I also don't wanna give a fuck and only work for companies who don't give a fuck about that kinda stuff either.

So who do I become?

## A web presence as self-expression

The spelunking I did this weekend made me discover a lot of cools gems [aaronparecki.com](https://aaronparecki.com/)
and his GPS adventures, James' Coffee Blog [jamesg.blog](https://jamesg.blog/2024/02/19/personal-website-ideas/) with some very cool
page ideas and Amy's website [rhiaro.co.uk](https://rhiaro.co.uk/) which has [tiny PHP apps](https://apps.rhiaro.co.uk/)
to post custom content by using the ActivityPub protocol.

I don't know these people, but in my mind, these are **cool people**. And I want to be cool! 😎

So now I want to create something beautiful, a Frankenstein's monster, a collection of pages,
little applets, colourful mood boards, emotional homages to the internet of 2004-2008. 
Marquee's, glitter GIFs, MP3s in a JWPlayer SWF. Webrings, pixelart buttons, faerie pictures.
The whole shabang. 🧚

Just have to decide **1)** between Neocities 2.0 or _regular_ website and **2)** do I use _gerben.dev_ or do I
go for something completely new?
